# Database Overview


**or ... Why are there two database clusters?**

Demography's data is split into two separate database clusters (split between two PostGIS Docker Instance / Data Container pairs).  There are a couple of obvious (and unfortunate) reasons for this division.
- Some data needs to be served as fast as possible
- SSD (Solid State Drive) storage, the fastest currently available, is expensive

So essentially, the data is split into a 'fast' cluster, and a 'slow' cluster. 

In the fast cluster (SSD) there are only 2 databases:
- The 'DOLA' database, with all of Demography's most current data
- The latest 5-year American Community Survey database (currently 2010-2014)

The 'DOLA' content is the most frequently data on the site, and is reached through many data lookups and applications throughout the site.  The most recent 5-Year American Community Survey data is served through the ACS webmap, and is one of the most accessed (and resource-heavy) applications that we serve.

Other data is considered 'less critical' and is served on a much cheaper magnetic hard drive.  This includes:
- 1980 through 2010 Decennial Census Data
- Older 5-year American Community Survey datasets

This data is less frequently accessed (but still necessary) and can be served via a slower means.

### What's in the DOLA Database?

The DOLA database so far is composed of two schema's
- bounds
- estimates

Neither schema holds the data that it purports to hold, so they must be explained.

**Bounds** contains municipal boundary and special district data, along with copies of common (and unsensitive) DOLA Oracle data such as local government information.  It has a mix of geo and tabular tables.

**Estimates** contains estimate, forecast, and economic data generated by the State Demography Office.  It consists entirely of tabular datasets.
